Justin Lincoln
Assistant Professor
Studio Art

Abstract:
Assistant Professor Justin Lincoln and rising junior Mercer Hanau plan on working over
the Summer on an ambitious new media project that continues a line of inquiry started during a
Fall 2015 Independent Study Course (Intermediate New Genres: Interactive Graphics.) This
project, tentatively titled “Moving Texts / Text and Motion” will involve programming with the
language Processing and development in the video editing software After Effects. Mercer has
proven to be an able programmer and demonstrated a keen understanding of digital / textual
manipulations. The most likely creative outcome of this collaboration will be a video installation
that can be submitted to galleries, festivals, and conferences.
After Effects is part of Adobe’s Creative Cloud and is installed in the Hickman Digital
Studio in Fouts. Next Fall Justin plans on including After Effects in the Intermediate/Advanced
New Genres course for the first time at Whitman. He is a relative newcomer to After Effects, so
this project will also allow Justin to become more familiar with the application alongside a
student who plans on being part of that class. This project also connects to central concerns in
Digital Humanities which is another important part of Lincoln’s research and teaching.

2016 Perry Grant Proposal

Since arriving at Whitman in the Fall of 2010 I have been researching networked culture, the
open source programming language Processing, experimental video montage, and the rise of
Digital Humanities within academia. One concern that can unite all of these areas is the use of
text that moves in space and time on digital screens. Whether we look at words or images on a
screen or page we are always “scanning.” When an artist or designer chooses to control the
amount of time at which text is on a screen, how that text looks or moves, or how it is combined
with images, it can have a deep impact on the reader / viewer’s experience.
This project, tentatively titled “Moving Texts / Text and Motion” will involve programming in
Processing and development in the video editing software After Effects. The most likely creative
outcome of this collaboration will be a video installation that can be submitted to galleries,
festivals, and conferences.

During the Fall semester of 2015, my advisee Mercer Hanau completed an independent study
course with me called Interactive Graphics. Mercer proved to be not only a stellar thinker with a
refined aesthetic sense, but also a very adept programmer and designer. She has demonstrated
a keen understanding of digital / textual manipulations and her enthusiasm in this area has led
to my own growing curiosity in this area. She plans on continuing to work with New Genres /
New Media as she continues her completing arts degree. Mercer currently works for Whitman’s
student newspaper, The Pioneer as their Infographics Artist and has also worked for the school
literary magazine Blue Moon.

Mercer will be doing a great deal of programming over this Summer as part of this project. She
is interested in programming in general, and is looking for more opportunities to develop these
skills. She will also learn After Effects alongside Justin. Mercer is a prospective Film and Media
Studies minor and knowledge of this software will also be helpful in that area. While Processing
will tentatively be the primary tool of production it can be combined with After Effects. Since
Mercer is likely to be in the Intermediate / Advanced New Genres class the following Fall, the
first time it will be introduced at Whitman she will also be able to help me introduce the concepts
and technical tools to other students. Sustained work in these two parallel areas should fill an
estimated 7 weeks of solid labor (40 hours of work a week.) Most, if not all of the work will be
completed in the Fouts Digital Studio in the Fouts Center for the Visual Arts. Mercer can be
given access to the building to facilitate this work.

I have completed two successful Perry Fellowships, one in 2014 with Mahon Yoder and one in
2012 with Ben Lerchin. In the previous fellowships I traveled with the students for technical
training at ShakeRag Workshops in Tennessee. This year, I plan on remaining in Walla Walla
and utilizing the wonderful facilities in Fouts. Not only will Mercer and I have access to the
Hickman Digital Studio over the Summer, we can also use the exhibition space in Fouts to test
video installations. We can document the installations as prototypes or proofs of concept for
installations in other spaces, and use these results when submitting proposals for exhibitions,
screenings, and conferences or festivals

Relevant Literature:
Type on Screen: A Critical Guide for Designers, Writers, Developers, and Students
(Design Briefs.) Ellen Lupton. 2014. Princeton Architectural Press.
Digital_Humanities. Anne Burdick, Johanna Drucker, Peter Lunenfeld, Todd Pressier. 2012
MIT Press.
Software Takes Command ( International Texts in Critical Media Aesthetics.) Lev
Manovich. 2013. Bloomsbury Academics.
The Language of New Media. Lev Manovich. 2002. Leonardo Books.

Prospective Timeline :

Steady work at Fouts, 40 hours 8 hours/5 days a week from June 6 - July 15

Week 1 Introductory reading, review of Literature, Begin planning video installation project.
Week 2 Begin programming and online training in Adobe After Effects
Week 3 Continue programming and online training. Look up venues for screening of the project.
Week 4 Customize and refine program. Generate material in program for video editing.
week 5 Commence Video and possibly sound editing.
week 6. Begin work on installation.
week 7. Finish installation and document it.
After the Summer project Justin Lincoln will submit the project to various venues. An update will
be sent to the committee that Fall, though there may be extensive turn around time as
submissions are reviewed.
