Prospective Timeline :

Steady work at Fouts, 40 hours 8 hours/5 days a week from June 6 - July 22

Week 1. Introductory reading, review of Literature, Begin planning video installation project.
read Lupton books, pp 243-327 in SoftWare takes Command, Organize Lab and Studio, get started with GitHub.
  Mercer: Look at others' Processing files on GH (search for Processing code for tips on how to attach media)
      upload an Exp in Illeg Processing file to GitHub (with fonts and images?)

  HW for next week: Figure out timing (seconds, etc) vs. framerate for saving frames. Also modulo (remainders).
      Issue: Quicktime playback is same speed if 1 frame for every frame...
      Want to be able to slow down how long we see words
      What if we want something happening faster in the BG as well?
    Read Software Takes Command (section; look at PDF)... Take notes for discussion (and maybe for class readings)


Week 2. Begin programming and / or online training in Adobe After Effects
  Mercer's Qs: In Ae, is there a way to make a 3D mask path (w/ Z-axis coordinates) for animated text to follow? 
                 Not a shape or keyframe path... Trying to get "DNA" text strands to flow around each other in Hybrid Media piece
           What text do we want to animate in our main project?


Week 3. Continue programming and online training. Look up venues for screening of the project.
  Clean classroom (etc), ready for fly-in students
  Install MidiBus, connect to program so it controls our variables 
  Sync GitHubs better (pull requests, edit correct files?)
  Justin: Find ideal font size, optimized for clear display and relatively small size
  Rainbow drip and "shower door" programs generated connected to object oriented programming


Week 4. Customize and refine program. Generate material in program for video editing.
  Fly-In students, scanning, printing, recouping
  Pause, resume, and restart
  Glitch font "mistake"... actually pretty cool


Week 5. Commence Video and possibly sound editing.
  Met with Professor Janet Davis and her assistant, Emma
  Speed recalibration after optimization
  Put pause (etc.) on midi, not keyPressed

Week 6. Begin work on installation.
  Met with Albert Schuller in the gallery with the program projected.
  Albert quickly coded a dyslexic add-on
  Talked about performance ideas (silhouettes)

Week 7. (Finish installation and document it. Review. Write Report.)
  Switched from centered text to movable on X and Y
  Grayscale for text and background
  Text alpha introduced
  Made midi connect tutorial (Etch A Sketch)
  Video and text mashup
  2 texts side-by-side version (cut-up)
  Mercer talked to another student about performance in Latin-American theater
  Midi diagram
  Finalize/uncomment version
  Midi-fied rainbow drip program
  Met with Shane Ward
  Justin presented prototype to Digital Humanities group

 Still to do!
   Red toggle?
   Fade is still lurchy at low speeds
   Make fade/BG independent of drawing text
   Toggle between dyslexic and non-dyslexic
   Array of texts
   Midi-fy "Shower Door" and get rid of gaps
   Further explorre glitch text book project
   Social component of how to use this as an "instrument"

After the Summer project Justin Lincoln will submit the project to various venues. An update will
be sent to the committee that Fall, though there may be extensive turn around time as
submissions are reviewed.
